1) Insert below the student numbers and names of the 1-3 group members, one per line
347682 Janne Gröndahl
601234 Minjung Ryu

...

2) Write below the name of your group
BB

...

3) Write below a short description of the machine learning problem you plan to address
We will study the Dog Breed Identification problem, which is a current playground 
competition on Kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/c/dog-breed-identification). In the task,
we classify images of dogs on their breed. 
...

4) Write below what deep learning approach(es) you plan to employ in your project
We will implement three approaches: (1) a basic vanilla CNN, (2) a CNN with image input 
+ facial keypoints detected using OpenCV, and (3) a combination of the pretrained
ImageNet model and additional convolutional layers (transfer learning). Depending on the
time we have, we hope to also experiment with different methods for improving accuracy,
such as regularization (dropout and others), and possibly augmenting the data.

...

5) Write below what deep learning software you plan to use in your project
We plan to learn and use Keras in this project. It seems like a useful framework 
to learn, as it can be used to quickly prototype different neural network models. We 
are also interested in learning TensorFlow, if we have extra time we will check it out 
too.

...

6) Write below what computational resources you plan to utilize in your project
Our plan is to use the CSC notebooks, as they support Keras.

...

7) Write below what kind of data you plan to use in your experiments
The data in the challenge is a subset of the ImageNet dataset with only dog images, 
and the labels are the dog breeds.

...

8) Write below what are the reference methods and results you plan to compare against
As the task is a Kaggle competition, we can easily compare our results with the 
leaderboard, as well as with results from publicly uploaded kernels (notebooks). For
leaderboard scores we cannot know the used methods, as the competition is still ongoing.
However methods used in the public kernels are of course clear and easy to compare with.

...

